+++
date = "2018-03-07T15:56:57+01:00"
title = "Create a simple parallel model"
author = "Thomas Fischer"

[menu]
  [menu.tools]
    parent = "workflows"
+++

## Unsupported Processes

So far, the parallel FEM scheme with PETSc cannot be used by the all processes
 using linear and quadratic function spaces simultaneously. They are

- HydroMechanics (including that with LIE)
- ThermoHydroMechanics
- RichardsMechanics

## Software Modules and Compilation on EVE

- Checkout the OGS-6 source code
  - Source the environment scripts `scripts/env/eve/cli.sh`
- Configure with utils enabled to:
  - Create the binary for generation of the structured mesh
  - Create the binary for the mesh partioner tool `partmesh`
  - `cmake <path_to_source> -DOGS_BUILD_UTILS=ON`
- Configure OGS for parallel usage with PETSc:
  - Source the environment scripts `scripts/env/eve/petsc.sh`
  - `cmake <path_to_source> -DOGS_USE_PETSC=ON`
- Build the source code with `make`

## Create a structured mesh

In order to discretize the domain of a unit cube do
`bin/generateStructuredMesh -o cube_1x1x1_hex_axbxc.vtu -e hex --lx 1 --ly 1 --lz 1 --nx a --ny b --nz c`
where `a`, `b`, and `c` should be chosen according to the needs.

|  `a`  |  `b`  |  `c`  | #cells in 10^6 | compute cores | success |
|  ---: |  ---: |  ---: | ---: | ---: | :---: |
|  150  |  150  |  150  | ~ 3.38 | 20 | yes |
|  175  |  175  |  175  | ~ 5.36 | 20 | yes |
|  190  |  190  |  190  | ~ 6.86 | 20 | yes |
|  196  |  196  |  196  | ~ 7.59 | 20 | no |
|  216  |  216  |  216  | ~ 10.08 | 40 | yes |
|  236  |  236  |  236  | ~ 13.14 | 40 | yes |
|  292  |  292  |  292  | ~ 24.90 | 80 | yes |
|  368  |  368  |  368  | ~ 49.84 | 160 | yes |
|  422  |  422  |  422  | ~ 75.15 | 240 | yes |
|  465  |  465  |  465  | ~ 100.54 | 320 | |

For the boundary conditions, if they are simple (_i.e._ homogeneous), the
simplest `.gml` file is sufficient for the serial case, but for heterogeneous
boundary conditions and parallelization boundary mesh files are needed. There
are two possibilities to create such files:

- If there is a `.gml` file, use [`constructMeshesFromGeometry`
   tool]({{<ref "../../meshing-submeshes/constructMeshesFromGeometry">}})  which
   takes the mesh file and geometry and creates all the boundaries which are
   named in the `.gml` file with the required `bulk_node_ids` and
   `bulk_element_ids` mappings.
- If there is a boundary mesh (generated by gmsh or salome, or extracted in
   paraview, for example) use the [`identifySubdomains`
   tool]({{<ref "../../meshing-submeshes/identifySubdomains">}}) to create or
   verify the needed `bulk_node_ids` and `bulk_element_ids` mappings.

## Partition the mesh with [`partmesh`]({{<ref "../../model-preparation/mesh-partition">}})

1. Convert vtu mesh into metis input mesh <br/>
```bin/partmesh -i cube_1x1x1_hex_axbxc.vtu --ogs2metis``` <br/>
=> results in a file `cube_1x1x1_hex_axbxc.mesh`
2. partition the mesh and the corresponding boundaries. <br/>
```bin/partmesh -n number_of_partitions -m -i cube_1x1x1_hex_axbxc.vtu -- boundary_meshes*.vtu``` <br/>
This will result in a bunch of `.bin` files.

## Deciding the part to benchmark

- Usually, for solving elliptic problems (for instance, the steady state groundwater flow) the time for the linear solver is the main part of the simulation.
- The hydro-thermal process can be used for testing of the IO capabilities.
- In the mechanics process large parts of the computational resources are spent for the assembly.

## ToDo

- script to create models and partitions
- submit script to cluster
- Metrics to take into account could be
  - weak scaling (problem size increases as the number of processors increases)
  - strong scaling (fixed problem size, use increasing number of processors => speedup and parallel efficiency)
  - fixed number of processors, increasing problem size
