web/content/docs/benchmarks/hydro-component/hydro-component.md, before:

+++
author = "Marc Walther"
weight = 142
project = "Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/"
date = "2017-09-07T14:41:09+01:00"
title = "Saturated Mass Transport"

[menu]
  [menu.benchmarks]
    parent = "hydro-component"

+++

{{< project-link >}}


## Overview

This benchmark compiles a number of simple, synthetic setups to test different processes of saturated component transport of a solute.

The development of the equation system is given in [this PDF](../HC-Process.pdf). In the following, we present the different setups.


## Problem description

We use quadratic mesh with $0 < x < 1$ and $0 < y < 1$ and a resolution of 32 x 32 quad elements with edge length $0.03125 m$. The domain material is homogeneous and anisotropic. Porosity is $0.2$, storativity is $10^{-5}$, intrinic permeability is $1.239 \cdot 10^{-7} m^2$, dynamic viscosity is $10^{-3} Pa \cdot s$, fluid density is $1 kg\cdot m^{-3}$, molecular diffusion is $10^{-5} m^2\cdot s^{-1}$. If not stated otherwise, retardation is set to $R=1$, relation between concentration and density is $0$, decay rate is $\theta = 0$, and dispersivity is $\alpha = 0$.

Boundary conditions vary on the left side individually for each setup; right side is set as constant Dirichlet concentration $c=0$; top and bottom are no-flow for flow and component transport. Initial conditions are steady state for flow (for the equivalent boundary conditions respectively) and $c=0$.

### Model setups

#### Diffusion only / Diffusion and Storage

Left side boundary conditions for these two setups are pressure $p=0$ and concentration $c=1$. The *Diffusion only* setup results in the final state of the *Diffusion and Storage* setup. For the former, retardation is set to $R=0$, while for the latter, $R=1$.

[The *Diffusion only* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/ConcentrationDiffusionOnly.prj)
[The *Diffusion and Storage* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/ConcentrationDiffusionAndStorage.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorage.gif" title="*Diffusion and Storage*">}}

#### Diffusion, Storage, and Advection

Left side boundary conditions for this setup are pressure $p=1$ and concentration $c=1$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, and Advection* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvection.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvection.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, and Advection*">}}

#### Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion

Left side boundary conditions for these setups are pressure $p=1$ and concentration $c=1$. The latter is once given over the full left side, and in a second setup over half of the left side. Longitudinal and transverse dispersivity is $\alpha_l = 1 m$ and $\alpha_t = 0.1 m$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersion.prj)
[The *Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion Half* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersionHalf.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersion.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion*">}}
{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersionHalf.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion Half*">}}

#### Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Decay

Left side boundary conditions for this setup are pressure $p=1$ and concentration $c=1$. Decay rate is $\theta = 0.001 s^{-1}$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Decay* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDecay.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDecay.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Decay*">}}

#### Diffusion, Storage, Gravity, and Dispersion 

Left side boundary conditions for this setup are pressure $p=0$ for the full left side and concentration $c=1$ for half of the left side. Relation between concentration and gravity is $beta_c = 1$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, Gravity, and Dispersion* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/DiffusionAndStorageAndGravityAndDispersionHalf.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndGravityAndDispersionHalf.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Gravity, and Dispersion Half*">}}

Commit message:

correct link to project files

web/content/docs/benchmarks/hydro-component/hydro-component.md, after:

+++
author = "Marc Walther"
weight = 142
project = "Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/"
date = "2017-09-07T14:41:09+01:00"
title = "Saturated Mass Transport"

[menu]
  [menu.benchmarks]
    parent = "hydro-component"

+++

{{< project-link >}}


## Overview

This benchmark compiles a number of simple, synthetic setups to test different processes of saturated component transport of a solute.

The development of the equation system is given in [this PDF](../HC-Process.pdf). In the following, we present the different setups.


## Problem description

We use quadratic mesh with $0 < x < 1$ and $0 < y < 1$ and a resolution of 32 x 32 quad elements with edge length $0.03125 m$. The domain material is homogeneous and anisotropic. Porosity is $0.2$, storativity is $10^{-5}$, intrinic permeability is $1.239 \cdot 10^{-7} m^2$, dynamic viscosity is $10^{-3} Pa \cdot s$, fluid density is $1 kg\cdot m^{-3}$, molecular diffusion is $10^{-5} m^2\cdot s^{-1}$. If not stated otherwise, retardation coefficient is set to $R=1$, relation between concentration and density is $beta_c = 0$, decay rate is $\theta = 0$, and dispersivity is $\alpha = 0$.

Boundary conditions vary on the left side individually for each setup; right side is set as constant Dirichlet concentration $c=0$; top and bottom are no-flow for flow and component transport. Initial conditions are steady state for flow (for the equivalent boundary conditions respectively) and $c=0$.

### Model setups

#### Diffusion only / Diffusion and Storage

Left side boundary conditions for these two setups are pressure $p=0$ and concentration $c=1$. The *Diffusion only* setup results in the final state of the *Diffusion and Storage* setup. For the former, retardation is set to $R=0$, while for the latter, $R=1$.

[The *Diffusion only* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/ConcentrationDiffusionOnly.prj)
[The *Diffusion and Storage* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/ConcentrationDiffusionAndStorage.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorage.gif" title="*Diffusion and Storage*">}}

#### Diffusion, Storage, and Advection

Left side boundary conditions for this setup are pressure $p=1$ and concentration $c=1$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, and Advection* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvection.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvection.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, and Advection*">}}

#### Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion

Left side boundary conditions for these setups are pressure $p=1$ and concentration $c=1$. The latter is once given over the full left side, and in a second setup over half of the left side. Longitudinal and transverse dispersivity is $\alpha_l = 1 m$ and $\alpha_t = 0.1 m$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersion.prj)
[The *Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion Half* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersionHalf.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersion.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion*">}}
{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDispersionHalf.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Dispersion Half*">}}

#### Diffusion, Storage, Gravity, and Dispersion 

Boundary condition for this setup is pressure $p=0$ for the top left corner and concentration $c=1$ for half of the left side. Relation between concentration and gravity is $beta_c = 1$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, Gravity, and Dispersion* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/DiffusionAndStorageAndGravityAndDispersionHalf.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndGravityAndDispersionHalf.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Gravity, and Dispersion Half*">}}


#### Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Decay

Left side boundary conditions for this setup are pressure $p=1$ and concentration $c=1$. Decay rate is $\theta = 0.001 s^{-1}$.

[The *Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Decay* project file is here. ](../../../../../Tests/Data/Parabolic/ComponentTransport/SimpleSynthetics/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDecay.prj)

{{< img src="../gif/DiffusionAndStorageAndAdvectionAndDecay.gif" title="*Diffusion, Storage, Advection, and Decay*">}}
