web/README.md, before:

## Requirements

- Download [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/#action) and put it in your `PATH`
- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/), check if `npm` is in your `PATH`
- Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install), *OPTIONAL* faster alternative to `npm install`
- Install Python and `pip`, *OPTIONAL* for getting content from [Contentful](https://contentful.com)
- Install [ParaView](http://www.paraview.org/download/), *OPTIONAL* for converting VTK output files to vtk.js-format for interactive web visualization, check if `pvpython` is either in the `PATH` or ParaView is installed in `/Applications/` on macOS or `/usr/local/opt/paraview` on Linux

## Getting started

- Inside the source-directory `ogs/web`:
  - Install Node packages with `npm install` (or via `yarn`)
  - Install Python packages with `pip install -r requirements.txt`, *OPTIONAL* for getting content from [Contentful](https://contentful.com)
  - Re-run CMake and build the `ctest`-target, *OPTIONAL* for benchmark visualizations
  - Run `npm run build` to build the site which is created in `public/`

Alternatively you can simply run `make web` inside your build directory to install everything and build the site (this requires that `npm` or `yarn` was found by CMake). The `web`-target will not create the benchmark visualizations automatically.

## Develop site with live-preview

In `ogs/web` run

    hugo server

In your browser go to http://localhost:1313. As you make modifications to the site it will be rebuild and the page in the browser gets reloaded.

If you want to modify css run `gulp` in another terminal:

    npm run gulp

If you want to modify javascript run `webpack` in another terminal:

    npm run webpack-watch

## Importing CMS content (Optional)

In `ogs/web/import` rename `secret_example.py` to `secret.py` and fill in `accessToken`.

In `ogs/web/import` run

    python import.py

This fetches articles from the CMS to e.g. `ogs/web/data/news.json`.

## Used components

- [Hugo](https://gothugo.com) - Static site generator for technical documentation
- [Contenful](https://www.contentful.com/) -  API-based CMS for news, articles, ..
- [flexboxgrid](http://flexboxgrid.com/) - CSS grid
- [vtk.js](https://kitware.github.io/vtk-js/) - 3D Visualizations
- [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/) - Packaging JavaScript
- [gulp](http://gulpjs.com/) - Automation toolkit

## How-Tos

### Create a new page

By using `hugo new` you can create a new page with the correct frontmatter for that kind of page:

```bash
hugo new --kind benchmark docs/benchmarks/elliptic/groundwater-flow-dirichlet.md
```

- `--kind` is one the `archetypes/*`
- path is relative to `content/` and determines the URL of the page

### Setup navigation for a page

The are submenus (shown in the left sidebar) for specific sections such as for benchmarks. The submenus consist of groups (e.g. *Elliptic*) and page entries. Groups are defined in `config.toml`:

```toml
[[menu.benchmarks]]
  name = "Elliptic"
  identifier = "elliptic"
  weight = 1
```

To add your page to a group as an entry add the following frontmatter:

```toml
weight = 101

[menu]
  [menu.benchmarks]
    parent = "elliptic"
```

`weight` specifies the order of groups and pages in ascending order (top -> down).

### Images

Use shortcode `img`:

```go
{{< img src="../square_1e2_neumann_gradients.png" >}}
```

`src` can be absolute (by preceding with `/`) or relative. The relative path starts at your current URL. If your image is in the same directory as your `.md`-file you have to prefix your path with `../` as in the example above.

Optional parameters:

- `title` - Image caption
- `class` - CSS class
- `alt` - Alt text

### Visualizations

Use shortcode `vis`:

```go
{{< vis path="Elliptic/square_1x1_GroundWaterFlow/square_1e2_pcs_0_ts_1_t_1.000000.vtu" [height="300"] >}}
```

`path` is relative to `ogs/web/static/vis/` and points to a converted data set, see below.

Optional parameters:

- `height` - In px

----

You can convert VTK output files to vtk.js format with:

```bash
npm run convert -- -e -i vtk-file.vtu -o output/path
```

Run `npm run convert` to get a list of possible arguments.

### Equations

Equations can be set with typical LaTeX syntax by using [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org/). Blocks are defined by `$$` at the beginning and `$$` at the end of the block. Inline math uses one `$` as the delimiter. For more usage instructions see the [MathJax LaTeX help](http://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/tex.html).

## Developer notes

When adding a new module with `yarn add` you have to manually rebuild node-sass:

```
node node_modules/node-sass/scripts/install.js && npm rebuild node-sass
```

Commit message:

[web] Added bib-shortcode for inserting references.
Requires pandoc-citeproc tool.

web/README.md, after:

## Requirements

- Download [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/#action) and put it in your `PATH`
- Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/), check if `npm` is in your `PATH`
- Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install), *OPTIONAL* faster alternative to `npm install`
- Install Python and `pip`, *OPTIONAL* for getting content from [Contentful](https://contentful.com)
- Install [ParaView](http://www.paraview.org/download/), *OPTIONAL* for converting VTK output files to vtk.js-format for interactive web visualization, check if `pvpython` is either in the `PATH` or ParaView is installed in `/Applications/` on macOS or `/usr/local/opt/paraview` on Linux

## Getting started

- Inside the source-directory `ogs/web`:
  - Install Node packages with `npm install` (or via `yarn`)
  - Install Python packages with `pip install -r requirements.txt`, *OPTIONAL* for getting content from [Contentful](https://contentful.com)
  - Re-run CMake and build the `ctest`-target, *OPTIONAL* for benchmark visualizations
  - Run `npm run build` to build the site which is created in `public/`

Alternatively you can simply run `make web` inside your build directory to install everything and build the site (this requires that `npm` or `yarn` was found by CMake). The `web`-target will not create the benchmark visualizations automatically.

## Develop site with live-preview

In `ogs/web` run

    hugo server

In your browser go to http://localhost:1313. As you make modifications to the site it will be rebuild and the page in the browser gets reloaded.

If you want to modify css run `gulp` in another terminal:

    npm run gulp

If you want to modify javascript run `webpack` in another terminal:

    npm run webpack-watch

## Importing CMS content (Optional)

In `ogs/web/import` rename `secret_example.py` to `secret.py` and fill in `accessToken`.

In `ogs/web/import` run

    python import.py

This fetches articles from the CMS to e.g. `ogs/web/data/news.json`.

## Used components

- [Hugo](https://gothugo.com) - Static site generator for technical documentation
- [Contenful](https://www.contentful.com/) -  API-based CMS for news, articles, ..
- [flexboxgrid](http://flexboxgrid.com/) - CSS grid
- [vtk.js](https://kitware.github.io/vtk-js/) - 3D Visualizations
- [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/) - Packaging JavaScript
- [gulp](http://gulpjs.com/) - Automation toolkit

## How-Tos

### Create a new page

By using `hugo new` you can create a new page with the correct frontmatter for that kind of page:

```bash
hugo new --kind benchmark docs/benchmarks/elliptic/groundwater-flow-dirichlet.md
```

- `--kind` is one the `archetypes/*`
- path is relative to `content/` and determines the URL of the page

### Setup navigation for a page

The are submenus (shown in the left sidebar) for specific sections such as for benchmarks. The submenus consist of groups (e.g. *Elliptic*) and page entries. Groups are defined in `config.toml`:

```toml
[[menu.benchmarks]]
  name = "Elliptic"
  identifier = "elliptic"
  weight = 1
```

To add your page to a group as an entry add the following frontmatter:

```toml
weight = 101

[menu]
  [menu.benchmarks]
    parent = "elliptic"
```

`weight` specifies the order of groups and pages in ascending order (top -> down).

### Images

Use shortcode `img`:

```go
{{< img src="../square_1e2_neumann_gradients.png" >}}
```

`src` can be absolute (by preceding with `/`) or relative. The relative path starts at your current URL. If your image is in the same directory as your `.md`-file you have to prefix your path with `../` as in the example above.

Optional parameters:

- `title` - Image caption
- `class` - CSS class
- `alt` - Alt text

### Visualizations

Use shortcode `vis`:

```go
{{< vis path="Elliptic/square_1x1_GroundWaterFlow/square_1e2_pcs_0_ts_1_t_1.000000.vtu" [height="300"] >}}
```

`path` is relative to `ogs/web/static/vis/` and points to a converted data set, see below.

Optional parameters:

- `height` - In px

----

You can convert VTK output files to vtk.js format with:

```bash
npm run convert -- -e -i vtk-file.vtu -o output/path
```

Run `npm run convert` to get a list of possible arguments.

### Equations

Equations can be set with typical LaTeX syntax by using [MathJax](https://www.mathjax.org/). Blocks are defined by `$$` at the beginning and `$$` at the end of the block. Inline math uses one `$` as the delimiter. For more usage instructions see the [MathJax LaTeX help](http://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/tex.html).

### Bibliography references

Bibliography items from *Documentation/bibliography.bib* can be referenced by
their id with the `bib`-shortcode:

```go
{{< bib id="Kolditz2012" >}}
```

When building the `web`-target the file *Documentation/bibliography.bib* is
converted to *web/data/bibliography.json* with the tool `pandoc-citeproc`. This
json-file is then used by the shortcode.

## Developer notes

When adding a new module with `yarn add` you have to manually rebuild node-sass:

```
node node_modules/node-sass/scripts/install.js && npm rebuild node-sass
```
